Wallet notifying the Issuer of (un)successful issuance of credential(s) (#70)
openid/OpenID4VCI: openid-4-verifiable-credential-issuance-1_0.md

* An optional Batch Credential Endpoint from which multiple Credentials can be issued in one request (see (#batch-credential-endpoint)).
* An optional Deferred Credential Endpoint to allow for the deferred delivery of Credentials (see (#deferred-credential-issuance)).
* An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to make a Credential Offer to the Wallet to encourage the Wallet to start the issuance flow (see (#credential_offer_endpoint)).

> * An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to require the Wallet to send the status of the Credential that has been issued.

Author: ```suggestion
* An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to receive from the Wallet the status of the Credential that has been issued.
```

* An optional Batch Credential Endpoint from which multiple Credentials can be issued in one request (see (#batch-credential-endpoint)).
* An optional Deferred Credential Endpoint to allow for the deferred delivery of credentials (see (#deferred-credential-issuance)).
* An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to make a Credential Offer to the Wallet to encourage the Wallet to start the issuance flow (see (#credential_offer_endpoint)).

> * An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to receive from the Wallet the status of the Credential that it issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to require the Wallet to send the status of the Credential that has been issued.
```

> * An optional mechanism for the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of the status of the credential received by the Wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An optional mechanism for the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of the status of the Credential received by the Wallet.
```

> * An optional mechanism for the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of the status of the Credential received by the Wallet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to demand that the Wallet notify it of the status of the received Credential.
```

Author: ```suggestion
* An optional mechanism for the Credential Issuer to receive from the Wallet the status of the Credential that it issued.
```

> * An optional mechanism for the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of a status of the issued credential being stored by the Wallet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An optional mechanism for the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of the status of the credential received by the Wallet.
```

* A new Grant Type "Pre-Authorized Code" is defined to facilitate flows where the preparation of the Credential issuance is conducted before the actual OAuth flow starts (see (#pre-authz-code-flow)).
* A new authorization details [@!RFC9396] type `openid_credential` is defined to convey the details about the Credentials (including formats and types) the Wallet wants to obtain (see (#authorization-details)).
* New token response error codes `authorization_pending` and `slow_down` are added to allow for deferred authorization of Credential issuance. These error codes are supported for the Pre-Authorized Code grant type.

> * Client metadata is used to convey Wallet's metadata. A new metadata parameter `credential_offer_endpoint` is added to allow a Wallet (acting as OAuth 2.0 client) to publish its Credential Offer Endpoint (see (#client_metadata)).

Reviewer 2: Is it the wallet publishing the credential offer endpoint? 

😅

Reword required I assume

Author: I just made this change to make the file compile. I am not sure I understand what changes you are asking for but please open a separate issue as this is out of scope of this PR.

## Credential Offer {#credential_offer}

> The Credential Issuer sends Credential Offer as an HTTP GET request or an HTTP redirect to the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client_metadata).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer sends Credential Offer using an HTTP GET request or an HTTP redirect to the Wallet's Credential Offer Endpoint defined in (#client_metadata).
```

* `transaction_id`: OPTIONAL. A JSON string identifying a Deferred Issuance transaction. This claim is contained in the response if the Credential Issuer was unable to immediately issue the credential. The value is subsequently used to obtain the respective Credential with the Deferred Credential Endpoint (see (#deferred-credential-issuance)). It MUST be present when the `credential` parameter is not returned. It MUST be invalidated after the credential for which it was meant has been obtained by the Wallet.
* `c_nonce`: OPTIONAL. JSON string containing a nonce to be used to create a proof of possession of key material when requesting a Credential (see (#credential_request)). When received, the Wallet MUST use this nonce value for its subsequent credential requests until the Credential Issuer provides a fresh nonce.
* `c_nonce_expires_in`: OPTIONAL. JSON integer denoting the lifetime in seconds of the `c_nonce`.

> * `callback_id`: OPTIONAL. A JSON string identifying an issued credential that the Wallet includes in the callback as defined in (#callback).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `callback_id`: OPTIONAL. A JSON string identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the callback as defined in (#callback).
```

> * `callback_id`: OPTIONAL. A JSON string identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the callback as defined in (#callback).

Author: discussed during IIW that `callback_instance_id` is better suited.

Reviewer 3: It might be worthwhile to think about whether the transaction id can be re-used. So the logic would be:

- If credential is provided and no transaction id: Immediate issuance of credential, no callback.
- If credential is provided and transaction id: Immediate issuance of credential, call callback when endpoint is supported.
- If no credential is provided but transaction id: Call deferred credential endpoint, afterwards call callback when endpoint is supported.

This avoids one more data field the client has to handle.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `callback_id`: OPTIONAL. A string identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the callback as defined in (#callback).
```

Author: change made

* `credential`: OPTIONAL. Contains issued Credential. MUST be present when `transaction_id` is not returned. MAY be a string or an object, depending on the Credential format. See (#format_profiles) for the Credential format specific encoding requirements.
* `transaction_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying a Deferred Issuance transaction. This claim is contained in the response if the Credential Issuer was unable to immediately issue the Credential. The value is subsequently used to obtain the respective Credential with the Deferred Credential Endpoint (see (#deferred-credential-issuance)). It MUST be present when the `credential` parameter is not returned. It MUST be invalidated after the Credential for which it was meant has been obtained by the Wallet.
* `c_nonce`: OPTIONAL. String containing a nonce to be used to create a proof of possession of key material when requesting a Credential (see (#credential_request)). When received, the Wallet MUST use this nonce value for its subsequent Credential Requests until the Credential Issuer provides a fresh nonce.
* `c_nonce_expires_in`: OPTIONAL. Number denoting the lifetime in seconds of the `c_nonce`.

> * `ack_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the acknowledgement request as defined in (#acknowledgement).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `ack_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the acknowledgement request as defined in (#acknowledgement). This parameter MUST only be present if the `credential` parameter is returned. 
```

Author: ```suggestion
* `ack_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the acknowledgement request as defined in (#acknowledgement). This parameter MUST NOT be present if `credential` parameter is not present.
```
just to be consistent with the language we use elsewhere in the spec

> * `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying an issued Credential that the Wallet includes in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification ). This parameter MUST NOT be present if `credential` parameter is not present.

Author: ```suggestion
* `notification_id`: OPTIONAL. String identifying an issued Credential. The Wallet includes it in the Notification Request as defined in (#notification ). Each `notification_id` parameter value corresponds to exactly one issued Credential. This parameter MUST NOT be present if `credential` parameter is not present.
```

# Deferred Credential Endpoint {#deferred-credential-issuance}

> This endpoint is used to issue a Credential previously requested at the Credential Endpoint or Batch Credential Endpoint in case the Credential Issuer was not able to immediately issue this Credential. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used to issue a Credential previously requested at the Credential Endpoint or Batch Credential Endpoint in cases where the Credential Issuer was not able to immediately issue this Credential. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.
  * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Below is a non-normative example of a callback when credential issuance was successful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "issuer_state": "eyJhbGciOiJSU0Et...FYUaBy",
  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "success"
    }
  ]
}
```

Below is a non-normative example of a callback when credential issuance was unsuccessful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "issuer_state": "eyJhbGciOiJSU0Et...FYUaBy",
  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "error",
    "error_description": "..."
    }
  ]
}
```

## Response from the Credential Issuer

> <<<<<<< HEAD
> The Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP response with a 200 (OK) status code using the `text/plain` media type:
> 
> =======
> The Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP status code 200 (OK) status code and use the `text/plain` media type:
> >>>>>>> 789280f95c300157ed3a14317d7b2c0fd5812803

Author: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP status code 200 (OK) and use the `text/plain` media type:
```

}
```

# Callback Endpoint {#callback_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used to receive notification from the Wallet whether credential has been successfully stored in the Wallet or not. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 2: stored or accepted/acquired/received?

Author: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used to receive notification from the Wallet whether credential has been successfully received in the Wallet or not. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

This endpoint can be used after the Credential Issuer has sent Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the credential has been accepted and successully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing.

Communication with the Callback Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

## Callback from the Wallet

> The Wallet sends a callback to the Callback Endpoint by sending the following parameters in the entity-body of an HTTP POST request using the `application/json` media type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Callback Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.
```

> * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.

Reviewer 2: "error": true,
"error_description": "that long story"

Implementations may benefit by using boolean values and key names pairwised with their scope

> * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.

Reviewer 2: "error": true,
"error_description": "that long story"

Implementations may benefit by using boolean values and key names pairwised with their scope

> * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.

Author: There was an exchange on this on Bitbucket: https://bitbucket.org/openid/connect/pull-requests/608#comment-419576731

Why do you think boolean is better than two status codes..?

> * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.

Reviewer 2: because `if true` is more explicit

let's try to follow this path:
 - if there's an error ... then ...

that's why I suggest error:true and error_description, the first filters the second and we just want to now if the flow failed or not, since we don't assume that the status might have more than two values, so a selection of multiple statuses may exceeds the requirements

> * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.

Author: may as well follow the path:
- if `status` is ... then ...

> * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Author: WG has been looking for a parameter that the wallet includes in the callback so that the issuer can identify which credential this callback is about. based on our implementation what has been more relevant is which user session the callback is tied to. Suggestion would be to use a `state` parameter to be included in the callback. it is also probably the simplest when there is one callback for multiple credentials.

Reviewer 5: "state" doesn't work very well for multiple credentials in the case that some of them are accepted and some are not. Also "state" is something used in the protocol exchange between client/wallet and AS so it's not really appropriate to try and use for something at the credential issuer/RS.

Reviewer 2: If the credential has a unique identifier It then can be uniquely identifier

Jwt has the claim jti

I would suggest to pass also the credential type, because different types of credential may be processed by different microservices within the vci backend/architecture

Author: I think there is a confusion which state we are talking about. I was talking about issuer_state that the issuer passes in the credential_offer, not the state that the wallet sends in the authorization request.
That has also led me to think that issuer_state passed in the credential offer should be passed not in the authorization request, but the credential request.
I made changes to how issuer_state work - please take a look. I think with these new changes, issuer_state is the best suited for the purpose of callback.

Author: > If the credential has a unique identifier It then can be uniquely identified

I looked again and I don't think mdoc has equivalent of `jti`...

> Below is a non-normative example of a callback when credential issuance was successful:

Reviewer 2: Interesting

There May be attacks that floods the vci server with fake errors using plain JSON http requests, to hijack in massive failures the issuances?

Reviewer 2: Since It Is rest, is this endpoint protected?

Is there any value/element/property that allows a vci to filter out the anonymous and invalid, fake, requests?

Reviewer 2: according to the latest commits this attack has been mitigated with the `callback_id`

Reviewer 6: Apologies if this has already been discussed, but I think I would have expected this endpoint to require an access token as other credential issuer endpoints do - is there a reason not to use an access token in the case?

Reviewer 7: Makes sense to apply the same protection (access token) as on the credential endpoint imho

Reviewer 2: It makes sense @jogu @c2bo

Author: Agreed this needs to be protected using Access Token.

Reviewer 4: +1 the wallet has an access token and should use it as with any other credential related endpoint (and also additional protection mechanisms, like DPoP)

Reviewer 8: +1 agree with requiring an access token.

Reviewer 9: +1 I honestly thought this was already included! good spot to make sure it's explicit

Author: thinking more about this.... scope and audience of AT is for the credential endpoint, not callback endpoint.... technically, AT used at the credential endpoint should not work at the callback endpoint..

Reviewer 6: > thinking more about this.... scope and audience of AT is for the credential endpoint, not callback endpoint.... 

I don't think the current spec tightly defines what the AT is valid for.

I think it would make sense to say the access token includes this new endpoint as well. At least I can't see any reason not to.

Author: added
> The Wallet MUST present to the Callback Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). Credential Issuer that requires this Callback MUST ensure Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Callback Endpoint.

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "status": "success"
}
```

Below is a non-normative example of a callback when credential issuance was unsuccessful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "status": "error"
  "error_description": "..."
}
```

## Response from the Credential Issuer

> The Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP response with a 200 (OK) status code using the `text/plain` media type:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP status code 200 (OK) and using the `text/plain` media type:
```

Author: ```suggestion
The Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP status code 200 (OK) status code and use the `text/plain` media type:
```

```

> HPPT/1.1 200 OK

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
```

Content-Type: text/plain

> OK

Reviewer 2: It Is required the presence of this string in the message body?

Reviewer 2: May we assume that the http status code Is enough?

Author: ```suggestion
```
good point.

}
```

# Callback Endpoint {#callback_endpoint}

This endpoint is used to receive notification from the Wallet whether credential has been successfully received in the Wallet or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

This endpoint can be used after the Credential Issuer has sent Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the credential has been accepted and successully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing.

> 

Reviewer 6: I think we may need a bit of extra text to set expectations around how this can go wrong; I suggest something like this:

If the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason , the wallet SHOULD retry it, using exponential backoff or other mechanisms to avoid retrying too frequently. In some cases, the issuer will never receive a notification of whether the credential was accepted or not. The call must be idempotent - that is, the issuer must return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the wallet for the same credential.

Reviewer 9: I like the last line, but believe we can simplify it a bit more... how about -

"The Credential Issuer may never receive a callback, even thought a `callback_id` is included in its Credential Response. In this circumstance, it is left to the Credential Issuer to determine how to proceed. 

The Credential Issuer must return success if it receives multiple valid identical calls from the Wallet for the same credential."

Otherwise I fear we might have to start including params specifying how long the callback is valid for, what backoff periods are acceptable and soforth, while IMO that should all be left to the implementer and their desired UX.

Reviewer 6: > while IMO that should all be left to the implementer and their desired UX

I think the problem is this is a UX that is defined by the combination of the issuer behaviour and the wallet behaviour (which may be from different implementers), so neither party acting independently can achieve any particular UX.

If we don't recommend some sort of 'best efforts' in retries from the wallet I start to wonder if the issuer will be unaware of the status of too high a percentage of credentials.

I think if we did go the way you're suggesting it'd at least be worth clarifying:

1. That the callback may not be received for both successful and unsuccessful cases (making it clear that you can't make any assumption that "no callback" => "credential hasn't been stored".
2. That the spec doesn't require the wallet to retry failed requests.

Author: I agree it makes sense to clarify the behavior when the callback fails. I think the issuer needs to pre-determine the amount of time that it accepts callbacks for a given `credential_id`. not sure it needs to be a separate sentence/normative requirement. Suggestion:

```suggestion

The callback from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `callback_id`s.

It is up to the Wallet whether to retry if the call to this endpoint fails. If the Credential Issuer does not receive the callback within the pre-determined amount of time despite providing `callback_id` in the Credential Response, it MUST interpret that as Wallet did not successfully received the credential(s).
```

Reviewer 6: @Sakurann re:

> it MUST interpret that as Wallet did not successfully received the credential(s)

I don't think we should say that. The wallet may have accepted the credential but not been able to notify the issuer for some reason, and we wouldn't want the issuer to try and force the user to obtain a credential that they already have, nor do we want the issuer to revoke a credential that the user thinks they have. I think in this case the issuer has to assume that it doesn't know if the user has the credential or not - so it might want to offer the credential to the user again. It all gets a bit tricky really...

Author: played a little with the language. please see the most up to date suggestion in the original comment.

Reviewer 9: I like the edit.

Communication with the Callback Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

## Callback from the Wallet {#callback}

The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Callback Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.

> * `issuer_state`: REQUIRED if the `issuer_state` parameter was present in the Credential Offer (see (#credential_offer)).

Reviewer 4: that's redundant as it can be conveyed by the callback_id 

redundancies create new error cases, the issuer_state might not match all callback ids and/or the access token

Author: yes, it was pre-mature to add here before agreement on issue #79
```suggestion
```

* `credentials`: A JSON array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:

>   * `callback_id`: REQUIED. A JSON string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.

Reviewer 6: Typo:

```suggestion
  * `callback_id`: REQUIRED. A JSON string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.
```

>   * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.

Reviewer 2: discussion here
https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70#discussion_r1340898962

>   * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `error`.

Reviewer 6: I think `error` is intended to be used for all non-success cases, including cases where no error occurred but the user or wallet decided not to accept a valid credential?

```suggestion
  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success` or `failure`.
```

I'd also be okay with keeping 'error' (there's precedent in RFC6749 for using error in these cases) but just adding a bit of text saying "`error` indicates any case where the wallet has not successfully stored the credential, for example a failure to communicate with the wallet's backend, a problem with the credential, or the wallet or user may have decided not to accept a valid credential. The failure may be temporary or permanent."

Reviewer 8: Would `accepted` and `not_accepted` (or `rejected`) better describe the semantics of this status, namely because a credential may be not accepted due to an user decision and not due to an error?

Reviewer 9: We had `accepted`, `rejected` and `error` but refined that down to the current two on the argument that many wallets will not offer a choice to accept/reject a credential at the point of credential response. The argument being that the wallet has already given explicit consent it wants the credential(s) by completing the rest of the flow, so it will simply absorb it if it's valid without explicit interaction on the device at this stage in the flow.

I would prefer we accomodate for wallets that _do_ want that explicit UX at this final stage, even if they're not currently commonly implemented, so I would prefer `accepted` and `rejected` for exactly this use-case.

Author: I am ok with `accepted` and `rejected`. I think Giuseppe was asking if this better be a boolean, but sounds like strings work just fine..?

Author: ```suggestion
  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `accepted` or `rejected`.
```

  * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Below is a non-normative example of a callback when credential issuance was successful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "issuer_state": "eyJhbGciOiJSU0Et...FYUaBy",
  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "success"
    }
  ]
}
```

Below is a non-normative example of a callback when credential issuance was unsuccessful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "issuer_state": "eyJhbGciOiJSU0Et...FYUaBy",
  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "error",
    "error_description": "..."
    }
  ]
}
```

## Response from the Credential Issuer
The Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP status code 200 (OK) and use the `text/plain` media type:
```
HTTP/1.1 200 OK

> Content-Type: text/plain

Reviewer 6: Would it be appropriate to use a 204 No Content?

Reviewer 2: It makes sense

Author: eeee i think usually it would be 200 with `OK` or `ok` or something like that. so instead of changing to 204, would prefer reverting to `ok` or something and say that the content on the message can be anything

Reviewer 8: I suggest something along the lines of:
- A wallet MUST interpret a response with a 2xx status code as meaning that the request was correctly processed by the issuer and no retry is needed. The wallet should also ignore any response payload if the status code is a 2xx.
- An issuer SHOULD return a 204 No Content however usage of 200 OK with an empty `text/plain` is also allowed.

IMO, a 204 fits well into what is being done:

> The 204 (No Content) status code indicates that the server has successfully fulfilled the request and that there is no additional content to send in the response content. 
In https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9110.html#status.204

Reviewer 9: Do we need to account for a response to an invalid call to the endpoint, i.e. when a request is made without a valid access token, or without a valid callback_id with an unauthorised or bad_request, or should the endpoint _always_ return 204?

i.e. do we need to update the language to say "_In response to a valid request_, the Credential Issuer MUST respond with the HTTP status code 204 (No Content) and use the `text/plain` media type."

}
```

# Callback Endpoint {#callback_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used to receive notification from the Wallet whether credential has been successfully received in the Wallet or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 9: Can we rewrite the first sentence as:

"This endpoint is used to receive notifications from the Wallet indicating whether a credential has been successfully received or not."

just to make it a little cleaner

Author: done

> This endpoint is used to receive notification from the Wallet whether credential has been successfully received in the Wallet or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used to receive notification from the Wallet whether Credential has been successfully received in the Wallet or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

> This endpoint is used to receive notification from the Wallet whether Credential has been successfully received in the Wallet or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Author: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

@dave-luna

> This endpoint can be used after the Credential Issuer has sent Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the credential has been accepted and successully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint can be used after the Credential Issuer has sent Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing.
```

The callback from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `callback_id`s.

It is up to the Wallet whether to retry if the call to this endpoint fails. The Credential Issuer SHOULD have pre-determined the amount of time within with it expects the callback. It is up to the Credential Issuer how to interpret not receiving callback from the Wallet at all, despite providing `callback_id` in the Credential Response.

Communication with the Callback Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

## Callback from the Wallet {#callback}

The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Callback Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.

* `credentials`: A JSON array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:
  * `callback_id`: REQUIRED. A JSON string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.

>   * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`.

Author: need to explain when to use which `failure` vs `rejected`

Author: ```suggestion
  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `rejected` is be used when unsuccessful credential issuance was caused by user action. In all other cases, `failure` is used.
```
@pmhsfelix

  * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Below is a non-normative example of a callback request when credential issuance was successful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "success"
    }
  ]
}
```

Below is a non-normative example of a callback request when credential issuance was unsuccessful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{
  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "error",
    "error_description": "..."
    }
  ]
}
```

## Successful Callback Request

> When the Credential Issuer has successfully received the callback request from the Wallet, it MUST respond with the HTTP status code 2xx and use the `text/plain` media type. The usage of the HTTP status code 204 (No Content) is RECOMMENDED.

Author: ```suggestion
When the Credential Issuer has successfully received the callback request from the Wallet, it MUST respond with the HTTP status code 2xx. The usage of the HTTP status code 204 (No Content) is RECOMMENDED.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

Below is a non-normative example of response to a successful callback request:

```

> 
> ```
> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
> Content-Type: text/plain

Author: ```suggestion

Below is a non-normative example of response to a successful callback request:

```
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

> HTTP/1.1 200 OK
> Content-Type: text/plain

Author: ```suggestion
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

}
```

# Callback Endpoint {#callback_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 6: We might want to be clearer about whether "OPTIONAL" means that it is optional for the Credential Issuer, or if it also means that it is optional for the wallet to support.

I think there is an argument for saying that the wallet MUST call this endpoint if the issuer supports it and provides a callback_id.

Reviewer 9: I'm not sure we can make it a MUST if it's optional on the issuer's side to support? Perhaps SHOULD? 

The issuer can use a timeout after which it can presume that it won't receive a notification (due to network or the wallet not supporting this feature) - it may then decide to e.g. prompt for the presentation of the just-issued credential to verify that it was correctly stored, instead of being able to act off the callback's contents.

Reviewer 6: My suggestion was "the wallet MUST call this endpoint if the issuer supports it and provides a callback_id."

I don't think I follow why that wording is problematic. i.e. I'm saying that if the issuer asks the wallet to make a callback, the wallet must (attempt to) make that callback.

Author: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the issuer supports it and provides a `callback_id`.
```

This endpoint can be used after the Credential Issuer has sent Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing.

The Wallet MUST present to the Callback Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). Credential Issuer that requires request to the Callback Endpoint MUST ensure Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Callback Endpoint.

The callback from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `callback_id`s.

> It is up to the Wallet whether to retry if the call to this endpoint fails. The Credential Issuer SHOULD have pre-determined the amount of time within with it expects the callback. It is up to the Credential Issuer how to interpret not receiving callback from the Wallet at all, despite providing `callback_id` in the Credential Response.

Reviewer 6: Potentially better wording:

```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the callback. The Credential Issuer may never receive the callback, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.
```

I'm not entirely sure if "The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the callback." is clear. I guess it's implying:

- that calls to the callback endpoint may fail if they occur some unknown time after the credential issuance
- that the credential issuer can take further action after not receiving the callback for some time

Author: ```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the callback. Therefore, even a well-formed callback from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may never receive the callback, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.
```

Communication with the Callback Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

## Callback from the Wallet {#callback}

The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Callback Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.

* `credentials`: A JSON array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:
  * `callback_id`: REQUIRED. A JSON string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.

>   * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `rejected` is be used when unsuccessful credential issuance was caused by user action. In all other cases, `failure` is used.

Reviewer 6: We should be clear if this is case sensitive or not.

Author: ```suggestion
  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `rejected` is be used when unsuccessful credential issuance was caused by user action. In all other cases, `failure` is used.
```

  * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Below is a non-normative example of a callback request when credential issuance was successful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1

> Host: server.example.com

Reviewer 6: Both examples should probably have `Authorization: Bearer mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM` added.

Author: done

> Content-Type: application/json

Author: ```suggestion
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW
```

{
  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "success"
    }
  ]
}
```

Below is a non-normative example of a callback request when credential issuance was unsuccessful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com

> Content-Type: application/json

Author: ```suggestion
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

```

The Wallet MUST present to the Callback Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). Credential Issuer that requires request to the Callback Endpoint MUST ensure Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Callback Endpoint.

The callback from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `callback_id`s.

It is up to the Wallet whether to retry if the call to this endpoint fails. The Credential Issuer SHOULD have pre-determined the amount of time within with it expects the callback. It is up to the Credential Issuer how to interpret not receiving callback from the Wallet at all, despite providing `callback_id` in the Credential Response.

> The Wallet MUST present to the Callback Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). Credential Issuer that requires this Callback MUST ensure Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Callback Endpoint.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Communication with the Callback Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

## Callback from the Wallet {#callback}

The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Callback Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.

* `credentials`: A JSON array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:
  * `callback_id`: REQUIRED. A JSON string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.
  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. The value MUST be either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`.
  * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Below is a non-normative example of a callback request when credential issuance was successful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{

>   "issuer_state": "eyJhbGciOiJSU0Et...FYUaBy",

Author: ```suggestion
```

  "credentials": [
    {
    "callback_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "success"
    }
  ]
}
```

Below is a non-normative example of a callback request when credential issuance was unsuccessful:

```
POST /callback HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
{

>   "issuer_state": "eyJhbGciOiJSU0Et...FYUaBy",

Author: ```suggestion
```

}
```

# Callback Endpoint {#callback_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the Credential Issuer supports it and provides a `callback_id`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `callback_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL, but it MUST be supported if `callback_id` is returned in the Credential Response. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the Credential Issuer supports it and provides a `callback_id`.
```

Author: I think `Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL` is sufficient and it is consistent with the descriptions of other endpoints. if we want to improve this, it should be done in another PR for other endpoints too

This endpoint can be used after the Credential Issuer has sent Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing.

> The Wallet MUST present to the Callback Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). Credential Issuer that requires request to the Callback Endpoint MUST ensure Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Callback Endpoint.

Reviewer 10: So does it mean the wallet has to use the same access token it acquired to request credential response from credential endpoint?

Author: yes

> The Wallet MUST present to the Callback Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). Credential Issuer that requires request to the Callback Endpoint MUST ensure Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Callback Endpoint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST present to the Callback Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). A Credential Issuer that requires the request to the Callback Endpoint MUST ensure that the Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Callback Endpoint.
```

The callback from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `callback_id`s.

> The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the callback. Therefore, even a well-formed callback from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may never receive the callback, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the callback. Therefore, even a well-formed callback from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer MAY NOT receive the callback, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.
```

Author: done

> The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the callback. Therefore, even a well-formed callback from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may never receive the callback, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the callback. Therefore, even a well-formed callback from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may never receive the callback, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.
```
The implications of MAY are as follows. 
If the wallet does not have to retry in the case of failure, then the issuer is in no better a position than if this endpoint was not used in the first place. And this text provides no guidance on what the issuer should do next. Furthermore it does not indicate how the user experience will be different whether this endpoint is called or not.

If the issuer assumes success, then it could assume success without the need for this endpoint.
If the issuer assumes failure, is it going to revoke the user's credential which is safely stored in the wallet? What sort of user experience would this give?

For these reasons, without a properly documented retry and recovery procedure, I do not believe that this endpoint adds any significant benefit because the decisions that need to be made in the event of a failure at this endpoint are similar to the ones the wallet and issuer must make if the initial credential issuance failed for some reason.

Reviewer 6: > If the wallet does not have to retry in the case of failure, then the issuer is in no better a position than if this endpoint was not used in the first place.

I don't think that's true. The experience for 95%+ of users is still better.

> For these reasons, without a properly documented retry and recovery procedure, I do not believe that this endpoint adds any significant benefit

There's a fair number of implementors that believe otherwise. I think if you have some suggestions on improving they'd be welcome, but I think any such changes may be mostly editorial as I don't think we should add any 'MUST' for issuer behaviour in this area.

I'm not sure whether the 'MAY' should be a 'MAY', 'SHOULD' or 'MUST'. That is probably worthy of a wider discussion, but probably isn't a reason to hold up this PR.

Reviewer: If you have a good connection then the initial credential delivery is highly unlikely to fail. So you do not need the proposed callback endpoint.
If you have a very flaky connection then the initial credential delivery is highly likely to fail, but so is the callback confirmation. So again you have not provided any significant benefit.
I suggest it's only in the intermediate cases where say 1 in 100 fail that this would increase to 1 in 10,000 by using the callback. But again, I do not see the benefit in implementing it. 
In our implementation we never had it and the user experience was not detrimental from not having it.
Also I am not sure why you are saying that the provision of a callback endpoint actually affects the GUI, since the  user should be protected from the communications exchanges.

Reviewer 6: It's not just about the network connection, there's a whole bunch of things that can go wrong.

> Also I am not sure why you are saying that the provision of a callback endpoint actually affects the GUI, since the user should be protected from the communications exchanges.

I don't think I follow this, can you expand please?

One example use case is the cross device case, where the user is at the issuer's website on their desktop installing a credential into a mobile wallet. It's generally helpful if the issuer website can update once the user has successfully installed the credential, for example giving the user guidance as to the things they might want to do next.

Reviewer: Can you please explain what you mean by "a whole bunch of things can go wrong". What are these things? I think it would help to determine the rationale for this new endpoint if we knew what problems we are trying to solve.

Concerning the GUI, the user requests the credential, and the wallet communicates with the issuer and installs the credential.  The communications do not need any user interaction, except when the user must authenticate to prove possession of the private key and sign the JWT with the public key. But this is before the new endpoint is called, so it is out of scope of the current discussion. After the credential is received, the user sees the credential in the wallet, or does not if it has failed. So the user knows the final state because he holds the wallet. If the issuer wants the user to further interact with it after the credential installation (which I do not think will be the majority of cases - certainly we never had any need for this - then its web page (that could be the one displaying the QR code that kicks off the installation) can display "click here once you have received the credential". This provides the equivalent of the new endpoint for cases where it is needed.

Reviewer 6: > Can you please explain what you mean by "a whole bunch of things can go wrong". What are these things

Off the top of my head: The wallet can crash, the phone can run out of battery, the user can correctly scan the qr code and think they've finished the process, the user can take a photo of the QR code and think they're done, the user can press the 'reject' button accidentally, the user can get distracted, the credential can fail to validate for some reason and get rejected by the wallet or the user somehow ends up in a wallet that doesn't support the credential, writing the credential to the phone storage can fail due to space restrictions, or due to a faulty sd card, the credential can turn out to be a different one that the user was expecting, the credential can fail to meet the wallet policy for other reasons, there can be a failure at the wallet backend.

I think we are at least in agreement that having the endpoint enables more choice in the UX?

If so the debate may be over whether a UX that puts more cognitive load onto the user is a better or worse UX, or at least whether that is worth the tradeoff of additional complexity in the protocol/wallet?

Reviewer: I don't think any of the errors you have suggested are a good enough reason for this new endpoint. You simply need the wallet to show the user the new credential once it has been successfully received and the issuer can assume all is OK. If it fails for any reason the user will be aware and can start the transaction again. The issuer will be aware of the failure because the user is retrying to install the credential. If the user cannot be bothered to retry, the issuer will think all is OK when it is not. But this is no different to the user getting the credential and never using it. Neither is different from the issuer's perspective or the user's perspective.

So there is no significant benefit from this new endpoint to either party and it unnecessarily complicates the protocol.

The new endpoint has no effect on the user experience and GUI.

Reviewer 6: > the issuer can assume all is OK

No, they can't, and I think this is fundamental to this discussion. All user experience design has to essentially start from a basis that many users will not properly understand this flow the first time they do it and will get confused by it. Any improvement that reduces the chances of the user having an incorrect understanding has massive benefits for any kind of at scale deployment. The flows you are suggesting all rely on the user doing more things correctly (and reduce the ability of the issuer to guide the user) compared to the flows I am suggesting.

> The new endpoint has no effect on the user experience and GUI.

I'm not sure if you and I are using the 'user experience' term to mean difference things. I'll try without using that term. You say the GUI is affected in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70#discussion_r1396222809 where you describe how you can implement an alternative (and arguably worse) GUI instead of using this endpoint. If I can't implement the GUI I describe without this endpoint, then the presence/absence of this endpoint affects the user experience the issuer can provide.

If you think your suggested user experience is the preferable one, that's fine, that's your opinion and you are welcome to implement your issuer like that. But the protocol should not unnecessarily prevent other people implementing user experiences they think (or have proved through user research) are better.

Reviewer: Can you please explain how your user experience or GUI is improved by this new endpoint. Thanks.

Reviewer: Since all that it is doing (from my perspective) is telling the issuer what has happened. The GUI at the wallet end will be the same AFAIK whether this new endpoint is contacted or not.

Reviewer 6: I explained that in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70#discussion_r1396166406

Reviewer: You said  "Any improvement that reduces the chances of the user having an incorrect understanding has massive benefits for any kind of at scale deployment." Please explain why telling the issuer the outcome of the transaction helps the user gain a more correct understanding, since the wallet already knows what the outcome is!!!

Reviewer: This comment 
https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70#discussion_r1396166406
is not sufficient in my opinion to add a new exchange to the protocol (one that is flawed anyway as I explained in my review requesting MAY should be MUST) since the web site can simply ask the user to click on a link once the credential has been correctly installed.

Reviewer: Furthermore you are mandating that wallets implement it if the issuer requests it.

Reviewer: So you are placing a burden on all wallet implementors for those few web sites that may wish to design their web site in one specific way.

Reviewer 6: As I mentioned in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70#discussion_r1396166406 in that flow the user is still interacting with the issuer at the end of the cross device flow.

The wallet often does not have the context of why a credential was issued to the user or what can be done with the credential; the issuer may well.

We're going round in circles now; we already addressed your latest point in https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70#discussion_r1397138417 - it is frankly completely daft to suggest we should limit ourselves to a UX that relies on the user to understand whether or not they correctly installed the credential. If that's the UX you want to implement in your systems, that's fine - but a number of people that have much better understanding of UX and user behaviour than I do believe otherwise, including the person that originally opened https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/issues/32 - and I tend to agree with them all.

Reviewer: You are mandating that all wallet implementors must implement this feature because they do not know if an issuer will request it or not. As a previous wallet implementor I strongly object to this added complexity.

Author: David, one of the incentives for this endpoint is not only to improve the UX, but also to add a guarantee to the issuer that the credential has been issued. Issuers using third party providers to issue credentials really need it because they do not want to be charged for the credentials, whose issuance was not successful for various reasons that Joseph and David Luna has been outlining.

multiple companies have a variant of this endpoint implemented and having it standardized really helps the ecosystem.

Author: Mandating the wallet to support this optional endpoint when the issuer supports it could be seen as extra work for the wallet. But the wallet can choose not to interact with the issuer who supports this endpoint (based on the issuer metadata), or the wallet can simplify the implementation by for example not retrying the callback if it fails once. so the wallet has a lot of discretion.

This is also why, while making it optional to the wallet to retry the callback when the callback itself is mandatory when the issuer supports it could look insufficient at first glance, it is also a way to simplify the wallet implementations.

Reviewer 4: > Issuers using third party providers to issue credentials really need it because they do not want to be charged for the credentials, whose issuance was not successful for various reasons that Joseph and David Luna has been outlining.

I would like to better understand this kind of setup. I feel the proposed mechanisms might not robust enough to build a charging solution on top of it.

Reviewer: I do not believe that third party providers are part of the 3 party model are they? I have not seen any architectural diagrams that include them, so why are we proposing to alter the issuer holder protocol to cater for them?

Communication with the Callback Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

## Callback from the Wallet {#callback}

The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Callback Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.

> * `credentials`: A JSON array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:
>   * `callback_id`: REQUIRED. A JSON string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `credentials`: An array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:
  * `callback_id`: REQUIRED. A string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.
```

Author: done

  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `rejected` is be used when unsuccessful credential issuance was caused by user action. In all other cases, `failure` is used.

>   * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set %x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description`` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set `%x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set `%x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`.
```

Reviewer 6: @Sakurann We should accept this suggestion as it removes a surplus `

Author: accepted!

}
```

# Acknowledgement Endpoint {#acknowledgement_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `ack_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the Credential Issuer supports it and provides a `ack_id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. The Credential Issuer needs to return `ack_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint by the Credential Issuer is OPTIONAL. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the Credential Issuer supports it and provides a `ack_id`.
```

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successfully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing. The Credential Issuer needs to return `ack_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint by the Credential Issuer is OPTIONAL. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the Credential Issuer supports it and provides a `ack_id`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successfully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors or other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `ack_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint by the Credential Issuer is OPTIONAL. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the Credential Issuer supports it and provides an `ack_id`.
```

> This endpoint can be used after the Credential Issuer has sent Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors and other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> The Wallet MUST present to the Acknowledgement Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). Credential Issuer that requires request to the Acknowledgement Endpoint MUST ensure Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Acknowledgement Endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet MUST present to the Acknowledgement Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). The Credential Issuer that requires a request to the Acknowledgement Endpoint MUST ensure that the Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Acknowledgement Endpoint.
```

The acknowledgement from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `ack_id`s.

> The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the acknowledgement. Therefore, even a well-formed acknowledgement from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may never receive the acknowledgement, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.

Author: ```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the acknowledgement. Therefore, even a well-formed acknowledgement from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may not receive the acknowledgement, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.
```
as suggested [here](https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70#discussion_r1380310793)

Communication with the Acknowledgement Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

> ## Acknowledgement from the Wallet {#acknowledgement}

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Acknowledgement Request {#acknowledgement}
```

The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Acknowledgement Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.

* `credentials`: Array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:

>   * `ack_id`: REQUIRED. String received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.

Reviewer 3: How does this work with batch issuance? Am I supposed to call the endpoint x times for x credentials? Or should this be made an array?

Reviewer 9: The `credentials` field in the acknowledgement request is an array of objects. Each entry references one of the fields in the batch endpoint's `credential_responses` array.

Reviewer 3: Ah right, I didn't see that, thanks!

> * `credentials`: A JSON array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:
>   * `ack_id`: REQUIRED. A JSON string received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.

Author: ```suggestion
* `credentials`: Array of objects, where each object consists of the following parameters:
  * `ack_id`: REQUIRED. String received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.
```

>   * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `rejected` is to be used when the unsuccessful credential issuance was caused by a user action. In all other unsuccessful cases, `failure` is to be used.

Author: ```suggestion
  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `success` is to be used when Credential was successfully stored in the Wallet. `rejected` is to be used when the unsuccessful Credential issuance was caused by a user action. In all other unsuccessful cases, `failure` is to be used.
```

Author: @tplooker this clarifies that `success` is not dependent on user action and changes `rejected` to `deleted` signal. please let me know if this is acceptable

>   * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `rejected` is be used when unsuccessful credential issuance was caused by user action. In all other cases, `failure` is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `status`: REQUIRED. Status whether the credential issuance was successful or not. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `success`, `failure` or `rejected`. `rejected` is to be used when the unsuccessful credential issuance was caused by a user action. In all other unsuccessful cases, `failure` is to be used.
```

  * `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set `%x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`.

Below is a non-normative example of an acknowledgement request when credential issuance was successful:

```
POST /acknowledgement HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

{
  "credentials": [
    {
    "ack_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "success"
    }
  ]
}
```

Below is a non-normative example of an acknowledgement request when credential issuance was unsuccessful:

```
POST /acknowledgement HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

{
  "credentials": [
    {
    "ack_id": "3fwe98js",

>     "status": "error",

Reviewer 11: Is the status here error or failure? Seems inconsistent

Author: good catch
```suggestion
    "status": "failure",
```

    "error_description": "..."
    }
  ]
}
```

> ## Successful Acknowledgement Request

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Successful Acknowledgement Response
```

When the Credential Issuer has successfully received the acknowledgement request from the Wallet, it MUST respond with the HTTP status code 2xx. The usage of the HTTP status code 204 (No Content) is RECOMMENDED.

Below is a non-normative example of response to a successful acknowledgement request:

```
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Acknowledgement Error Response

If the acknowledgement request does not contain an Access Token or contains an invalid Access Token, the Acknowledgement Endpoint returns an authorization error response such as defined in section 3 of [@!RFC6750].

> `invalid_request` parameter defined in section 3.1 of [@!RFC6750] SHOULD be used in most cases other than when `ack_id` value is invalid. In the latter case, the following error code SHOULD be used as the value of the `error` parameter:

Reviewer 5: RFC6750 defines use of the WWW-Authenticate response header field for the error param. Which isn't really the appropriate place for application layer errors like an invalid ack_id. And also isn't what's shown in the example Acknowledgement Error Response.

Author: good catch - fixed to 400 application/json requirements

Reviewer 5: Still isn't quite right.

* `invalid_ack_id`: The `ack_id` in the acknowledgement request was invalid.

It is at the discretion of the Wallet whether to retry the request or not.

> 

Reviewer: We need to add a sentence here to say what the Issuer should do after sending this error response. For example

"It is up to the Issuer to decide how to proceed after returning an error response."

Reviewer 3: We should also add a note about what is supposed to happen in the Wallet in case of an unsuccessful ack request. I suppose we should say something like "...should not have any impact on the UX".

Reviewer 3: This does not address the UX in the wallet.

Reviewer: My point still stands. We still need to say what the issuer should do if it sends an error response. This is a different situation to the one when the issuer does not receive the acknowledgment, which is the sentence that Sakuran pointed to.

}
```

# Notification Endpoint {#notification_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued Credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the one or more `notification_id` parameters in the Credential Response or the Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued Credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return one or more `notification_id` parameters in the Credential Response or the Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

Author: incorporated in [fe4892d](https://github.com/openid/OpenID4VCI/pull/70/commits/fe4892dde370f03c9e3fec999d4eca3b5bb2d0a8)

}
```

# Notification Endpoint {#notification_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued credentials, these events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `notification_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Author: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `notification_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `notification_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued Credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `notification_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `notification_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return one or more notification ids in a Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Every notification id is related to exactly one issued Credential. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

Author: Doesn't this belong in the definition of "notification_id" itself?

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `notification_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Author: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued Credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the one or more `notification_id` parameters in the Credential Response or the Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued Credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the one or more `notification_id` parameters in the Credential Response or the Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

Author: @pmhsfelix to suggest a text to make it more explicit that the support for this endpoint is optional for the wallet.

Reviewer 8: Suggested text, to insert after "...to be able to use this Endpoint"
```
The Wallet SHOULD notify the issuer of the relevant events by using this endpoint, since this can improve overall functionality and user experience, however this notification is not mandatory.
Namely, the Issuer cannot assume that a notification will ever be sent for any issued credential.
```

Author: How about below? cc @jogu

```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued Credentials. These events enable the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance. The Credential Issuer needs to return the one or more `notification_id` parameters in the Credential Response or the Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL. The Issuer cannot assume that a notification will be sent for any issued credential since this Endpoint is not mandatory for the Wallet.
```

Reviewer 2: @Sakurann WDYT about this rewording

> The Issuer should not assume that a notification will be dispatched for every issued Credential, as the use of this endpoint is not mandatory for the Wallet.

Reviewer 6: I'm okay with with any of these suggestions, although if we go with @peppelinux 's then I would replace 'should not'  with 'MUST NOT'.

The Wallet MUST present to the Notification Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). 

Note: A Credential Issuer that requires a request to the Notification Endpoint MUST ensure the Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Notification Endpoint.

> The notification from the Wallet is idempotent. When the Credential Issuer receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `notification_id`s, it returns success.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The notification from the Wallet is idempotent. When the Credential Issuer receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `notification_id`, it returns success.
```

Author: multiple calls for the same notification_id, so the current text is correct

> The notification from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success even if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `notification_id`s.

Reviewer 5: I'm pretty sure I know the intent here but this reads awkwardly and potentially like success must always be returned.

Author: concrete suggestions appreciated for these kinds of comments.

```suggestion
The notification from the Wallet is idempotent. When the Credential Issuer receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `notification_id`s, it returns success.
```

> The Wallet MAY retry if a notification request fails. There are no guarantees that a Credential Issuer receives a notification within a certain time period or at all.

Author: ```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if a Notification Request fails. There are no guarantees that a Credential Issuer receives a notification within a certain time period or at all.
```

> The notification from the Wallet is idempotent. When the Credential Issuer receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `notification_id`, it returns success.
> 
> The Wallet MAY retry if a notification request fails. There are no guarantees that a Credential Issuer receives a notification within a certain time period or at all.

Author: ```suggestion
The notification from the Wallet is idempotent. When the Credential Issuer receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `notification_id`, it returns success. There are no guarantees that a Credential Issuer receives a notification within a certain time period or at all.
```

> The Wallet MAY retry if a notification request fails. The Credential Issuer may not receive certain notifications for a variety of reasons and therefore should take this into consideration.

Author: ```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the notification. Therefore, even a well-formed notification from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may not receive the notification, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.
```

Reviewer 11: Not all notifications have a time period in which the issuer expects them to be sent such as the delete signal. For the second part of this paragraph I'd prefer we stick to the facts which is the issuer may not receive the notification and leave it to the implementer to determine what consequences might result if they were to miss a certain notification.

Reviewer 3: Can we boil it down to this?
```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if a notification request fails. There are no guarantees that a Credential Issuer receives a notification within a certain time period or at all.
```

Communication with the Notification Endpoint MUST utilize TLS.

## Notification Request {#notification}

> The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Notification Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type. The Wallet MUST send one Notification Request per Credential issued.

Reviewer 6: This 'MUST' can be read as the endpoint being compulsory for the wallet to call, which I thought we had moved away from. It can also be read as saying you shouldn't sent 'accepted' and then 'deleted' later, as that would be more than one notification. I think we can just remove that MUST without losing anything important?

```suggestion
The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Notification Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The Wallet sends an HTTP POST request to the Notification Endpoint with the following parameters in the entity-body and using the `application/json` media type. If the wallet supports Notification Endpoint, the wallet MAY sent one or more Notification Requests MAY be sent per Credential issued.
```

> * `notification_id`: REQUIRED. String received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response.

Author: ```suggestion
* `notification_id`: REQUIRED. String received in Credential Response or Batch Credential Response. Each `notification_id` parameter value corresponds to exactly one issued Credential. 
```

> * `event`: REQUIRED. Type of the notification event. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `credential_accepted`, `credential_failure` or `credential_deleted`. `credential_accepted` is to be used when the Credential was successfully accepted by the user and stored in the Wallet. `credential_deleted` is to be used when the unsuccessful Credential issuance was caused by a user action. In all other unsuccessful cases, `credential_failure` is to be used.

Reviewer 6: 'accepted by the user' isn't a compulsory step in some wallets, I think we should not mention it:

```suggestion
* `event`: REQUIRED. Type of the notification event. It MUST be a case sensitive string whose value is either `credential_accepted`, `credential_failure` or `credential_deleted`. `credential_accepted` is to be used when the Credential was successfully stored in the Wallet. `credential_deleted` is to be used when the unsuccessful Credential issuance was caused by a user action. In all other unsuccessful cases, `credential_failure` is to be used.
```

* `error_description`: OPTIONAL. Human-readable ASCII [@!USASCII] text providing additional information, used to assist the Credential Issuer developer in understanding the error that occurred. Values for the `error_description` parameter MUST NOT include characters outside the set `%x20-21 / %x23-5B / %x5D-7E`.

Below is a non-normative example of a Notification Request when a credential was successfully accepted by the End-User:

```
POST /notification HTTP/1.1
Host: server.example.com
Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer czZCaGRSa3F0MzpnWDFmQmF0M2JW

{
  "notification_id": "3fwe98js",
  "event": "credential_accepted"
}
```

> Below is a non-normative example of a Notification Request when a credential was deleted by the End-User:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a non-normative example of a Notification Request when a Credential was deleted by the End-User:
```

Below is a non-normative example of response to a successful Notification Request:

```
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Notification Error Response

If the Notification Request does not contain an Access Token or contains an invalid Access Token, the Notification Endpoint returns an Authorization Error Response such as defined in section 3 of [@!RFC6750].

When the `notification_id` value is invalid, the HTTP response MUST use the HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request) and set the content type to `application/json` with the following parameters in the JSON-encoded response body:

* `error`: REQUIRED. A key at the top level of the object, the value of which SHOULD be the following ASCII [@!USASCII] error code:
  * `invalid_notification_id`: The `notification_id` in the Notification Request was invalid.
  * `invalid_notification_request`: The Notification Request is missing a required parameter, includes an unsupported parameter or parameter value, repeats the same parameter, or is otherwise malformed.

> It is at the discretion of the Wallet whether to retry the request or not.

Reviewer 6: We're now saying this in two different places (line 1206 as well). We should only say it in one place.

I do not think we should encourage or even allow the wallet to retry for a permanent failure, for example I don't think `invalid_notification_id` or `invalid_notification_request` should ever be retried.

> It is at the discretion of the Wallet whether to retry the request or not.
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

}
```

# Notification Endpoint {#notification_endpoint}

This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successfully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors or other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `notification_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.

The Wallet MUST present to the Notification Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). 

Note: A Credential Issuer that requires a request to the Notification Endpoint MUST ensure the Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Notification Endpoint.

The notification from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success even if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `notification_id`s.

> The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails for a temporary reason. The Credential Issuer SHOULD pre-determine the amount of time within which it expects the notification. Therefore, even a well-formed notification from the Wallet could fail if received by the Credential Issuer after this time period. The Credential Issuer may not receive the notification, meaning it is unknown whether the Wallet successfully stored the credential or not - it is left to the Credential Issuer to decide how to proceed in this case.

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
The Wallet MAY retry if the call to this endpoint fails.
```

1. Its hard to qualify what constitutes a temporary reason in this context
2. Some notifications likely wont have a known amount of time to expect a notification within so I think we should just remove this.

Reviewer 6: Temporary might be a relatively well understood thing - dns fails, tcp connect timeouts, http 503, etc.

We could say the opposite, that the client shouldn't retry if it gets a permanent failure. I'd say we shouldn't imply the client should retry in the face of a known permanent failure (like a http 400 bad request or 410 gone).

Author: yeah, i am not ok removing these sentences entirely... just removing `for a temporary reason` would be ok.

}
```

# Acknowledgement Endpoint {#acknowledgement_endpoint}

> This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successfully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors or other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `ack_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint by the Credential Issuer is OPTIONAL. The wallet MUST call this endpoint if the Credential Issuer supports it and provides an `ack_id`.

Author: ```suggestion
This endpoint is used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer whether a Credential has been successfully received or not. It enables the Credential Issuer to take subsequent actions after issuance, depending on whether the Credential has been accepted and successfully stored by the Wallet, rejected by the Wallet, or errors or other unforeseen circumstances have occurred during the Wallet's processing. The Credential Issuer needs to return the `ack_id` in the Credential Response or a Batch Credential Response for the Wallet to be able to use this Endpoint. Support for this endpoint is OPTIONAL.
```

The Wallet MUST present to the Acknowledgement Endpoint a valid Access Token issued at the Token Endpoint as defined in (#token_endpoint). 

Note: A Credential Issuer that requires a request to the Acknowledgement Endpoint MUST ensure the Access Token issued by the Authorization Server is valid at the Acknowledgement Endpoint.

> The acknowledgement from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `ack_id`s.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The acknowledgement from the Wallet is idempotent. The Credential Issuer MUST return success even if it receives multiple identical calls from the Wallet for the same `ack_id`s.
```

    {
    "ack_id": "3fwe98js",
    "status": "failure",
    "error_description": "..."
    }
  ]
}
```

## Successful Acknowledgement Response

When the Credential Issuer has successfully received the acknowledgement request from the Wallet, it MUST respond with the HTTP status code 2xx. The usage of the HTTP status code 204 (No Content) is RECOMMENDED.

Below is a non-normative example of response to a successful acknowledgement request:

```
HTTP/1.1 204 No Content
```

## Acknowledgement Error Response

If the acknowledgement request does not contain an Access Token or contains an invalid Access Token, the Acknowledgement Endpoint returns an authorization error response such as defined in section 3 of [@!RFC6750].

`invalid_request` parameter defined in section 3.1 of [@!RFC6750] SHOULD be used in most cases other than when `ack_id` value is invalid. In the latter case, the HTTP response MUST use the HTTP status code 400 (Bad Request) and set the content type to `application/json` with the following parameters in the JSON-encoded response body:

* `error`: REQUIRED. A key at the top level of the object, the value of which SHOULD be the following ASCII [@!USASCII] error code:

>   * `invalid_ack_id`: The `ack_id` in the acknowledgement request was invalid.

Author: ok. i think we need to defined `invalid_notification_id` at this layer.

It is at the discretion of the Wallet whether to retry the request or not.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is up to the Issuer to decide how to proceed after returning an error response.
```

> It is up to the Issuer to decide how to proceed after returning an error response.

Reviewer 6: I'm pretty sure this will result in the paragraphs running together and we need a blank line here - I can't check as the document currently seems not to compile for some reason.

```suggestion
It is up to the Issuer to decide how to proceed after returning an error response.

```

* `credential_endpoint`: REQUIRED. URL of the Credential Issuer's Credential Endpoint as defined in (#credential_request). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components.
* `batch_credential_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Batch Credential Endpoint as defined in (#batch-credential-endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Batch Credential Endpoint.
* `deferred_credential_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Deferred Credential Endpoint as defined in (#deferred-credential-issuance). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Deferred Credential Endpoint.

> * `callback_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Callback Endpoint as defined in (#callback_endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Callback Endpoint.

Reviewer 2: callback alone sounds too much generic

WDYT about `credential_callback_endpoint` even for armonization with the others endpoints

Author: ```suggestion
* `credential_callback_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Callback Endpoint as defined in (#callback_endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Callback Endpoint.
```

* `credential_endpoint`: REQUIRED. URL of the Credential Issuer's Credential Endpoint as defined in (#credential_request). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components.
* `batch_credential_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Batch Credential Endpoint as defined in (#batch-credential-endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Batch Credential Endpoint.
* `deferred_credential_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Deferred Credential Endpoint as defined in (#deferred-credential-issuance). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Deferred Credential Endpoint.

> * `credential_ack_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Acknowledgement Endpoint as defined in (#acknowledgement_endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Acknowledgement Endpoint.

Reviewer 4: This part introduces the term "credential_ack_endpoint", whereas the rest of the PR designates the endpoint as "Acknowledgement Endpoint". I suggest to use the same term consistently.

Author: ```suggestion
* `ack_endpoint`: OPTIONAL. URL of the Credential Issuer's Acknowledgement Endpoint as defined in (#acknowledgement_endpoint). This URL MUST use the `https` scheme and MAY contain port, path, and query parameter components. If omitted, the Credential Issuer does not support the Acknowledgement Endpoint.
```

   
   -13

>    * added a Notification Endpoint used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued credentials

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * added a Notification Endpoint used by the Wallet to notify the Credential Issuer of certain events for issued Credentials
```

   * added support for HTTP Accept-Language Header in the request for Credential Issuer Metadata to request a subset for display data
   * clarified how the Credential Issuer indicates that it requires proof of possession of the cryptographic key material in the Credential Request
   * added an option to use data integrity proofs as proof of possession of the cryptographic key material in the Credential Request
   * editorial clean-up (fix capitalization, etc.)

   -12

   * changed `authorization_servers` Credential Issuer metadata parameter to be an array.
   * changed the structure of the `credentials_supported` parameter to a map from array of objects
   * changed the structure of `credentials` parameter in Credential Offer to only be a string (no more objects) whose value is a key in the `credentials_supported` map   
   * added an option to return `credential_identifiers` in `authorization_details` Token Response parameter that can be used to identify Credentials with the same metadata but different claimset/claim values and/or simplify the Credential request even when only one Credential is being issued.
   * clarified that credential offer cannot be signed

>    * clarified that credential error response can be authorization (rfc6750) or credential request error

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * clarified that Credential error response can be authorization (rfc6750) or Credential request error
```
